​ Technology worker and AI watcher based in Beijing, China, previously published on the China Talk blog with some outstanding analysis. Thank you to Jordan for making this possible with a timely connection. Welcome to the Cognitive Revolution. Thanks so much, Nathan. It's great to be here. Yeah, I'm really excited for this conversation. A conversation from 12 time zones apart and across global spheres of influence with a focus on what is going on with AI in China. This is something that I've been trying to wrap my head around a little bit and just find it very difficult to get a qualitative understanding of. Despite, ~~you know,~~ trying to read the blogs and whatever else is available to me. So really excited to get your take. I basically just want to ~~kind of~~ come at it from all angles. And, ~~um, you know,~~ that includes like your experience as a user of some of these products, ~~you know, kind of~~ watching society there, ~~you know,~~ more broadly, your take on what the government is trying to do and what they're actually doing.

And, ~~um, you know,~~ a little bit of ~~kind of~~ how you think ~~the,~~ the international competition is shaping up as you see it from Beijing. How's that sound? Sounds fantastic. All right, let's do it. So I guess obviously a big disclaimer is, ~~um,~~ I really don't know what I'm talking about. ~~You know,~~ a lot more than I do, but this will still be obviously a limited. Perspective. One of my favorite, ~~um,~~ I don't know if it's a joke or proverb about China is that man goes to China for two weeks, thinks he knows a lot about China stays for a year, realizes he knows nothing about China. ~~Um,~~ I'll put myself very firmly in the nothing, ~~uh,~~ category, but you want to just give us a little bit of a context on ~~kind of~~ your experience in China, like the kinds of work you've done there, how long you've been there, that sort of thing.

Yeah, sure. So as you may tell from my accent, I did not grow up in China, but in London. I've now been working in Beijing for the past five years or so, ~~uh,~~ in a mixture of Chinese tech companies and Western ones. And I am now focused more on the infrastructure side, cloud computing. But I'm still, ~~uh,~~ following Chinese AI have Chinese language skills that have allowed me to follow what is going on here. But I really like that you shared that quote and I do find myself that there's still so much more I need to know and, ~~uh,~~ yeah, really recognize that I'm only sharing one limited perspective here today. Cool. ~~Well,~~ if anyone's listening and wants to offer a contrasting perspective, we could certainly welcome that voice on the show as well. So definitely if that is you, don't be afraid to reach out for now.

Let's start off with just an overview of the Chinese. AI ecosystem, if you would. I think obviously in the U. S. people are familiar with, ~~you know,~~ your open AIs, your Google DeepMinds, your Anthropics as the sort of leaders and, ~~you know,~~ everybody else is paying attention, ~~but,~~ but those guys have really driven the agenda. I'm very curious about how you would describe the situation correspondingly in China, like who are the live players, if that phrase makes sense. ~~Um, you know,~~ who are the big companies, just give us kind of very basic background overview. Yeah, sure. So first off, the caveat, the AI is obviously a very broad set of technologies. And I think for most of our discussion, we'll be focusing more on the large language model providers. ~~Um,~~ so within that base, I would break things down into two main groups. You've got the big tech companies and the LLM startups.

So on the big tech side, ~~uh,~~ you've got companies like Alibaba, which is a big e commerce player, and Tencent, which developed the WeChat super app. Both of these companies have their own large language models, but have also been investing in LLM startup and Alibaba in particular has been very active here. It's invested in at least five different LLM startups. And it's important to note that they are also the cloud computing provider in China with the biggest market share. And so we see with these investments that they are likely getting the startup they're investing in to use that. Cloud resources, and they're having to spread their bets fairly widely because there isn't a real standout front runner in China for LLMs, ~~um,~~ in the way that you might see just two or three really standout players in the U. S. say. ~~Uh,~~ as well as Alibaba and Tencent, you've got Baidu, who are the search giant in China.

They have their own Ernie. Chatbot, which is doing pretty well. ~~Um,~~ we've seen that at the top of the super clue benchmark, which is a prominent benchmark for Chinese language, AI models and ByteDance, who people may know as the developer of TikTok and doing the Chinese equivalent. ~~Uh,~~ they also have a chatbot product that seems to be doing pretty well, according to one source I saw recently that was at the top of the monthly active user leaderboard for Gen AI apps, ~~uh,~~ in China earlier this year. And then moving on to the LLM startups, ~~uh,~~ you've got maybe two categories that you could further break things down into. So one is. Startups that have emerged from Tsinghua University, which is really China's top university for computer science. And there's a startup called Moonshot AI and another one called Drupal AI that are both started by Tsinghua professors and have managed to attract quite a lot of funding and attention.

And they're fairly small in terms of employee size, maybe a couple of hundred people, ~~but You know,~~ really, ~~um,~~ able to produce pretty decent models. And then you also have some startups that are started by more established entrepreneurs, so people may have heard of the team that was started by Kaifu Li, who is a pretty prominent tech leader in China, has experience at Google China and Microsoft Research Asia. And that set of models, ~~um,~~ the E models, ~~uh,~~ have been doing pretty well on open source leaderboards. And you also have startup called by Chuan, which was set up by the founder of a search company in China. And again, they've been investing in both open source and closed source models. So if I had to summarize or attempt to compare and contrast that to the US situation, overall, it sounds more similar than different. I think you named four big tech companies that presumably have, ~~you know,~~ a lot of cash on the balance sheet and can, ~~you know,~~ pretty freely write these investment checks.

And they are also the owner operators of the physical capital that all this stuff has to get trained on and eventually, ~~you know,~~ run it at inference time on. And it sounds like they are all, ~~you know,~~ wise to the opportunity and very much, ~~you know,~~ engaged with it. And then At the startup layer, as you said, maybe the big difference is that there isn't such a clear inner, ~~you know,~~ inner group of leaders, but there are sounds like a pretty healthy number of startups, including, ~~you know,~~ from top universities and just, ~~you know, well~~ known people. So is there anything else, anything I'm missing there? Or would you say overall, Aside from that kind of nobody's like the clear front runner caveat, would you say it is essentially a similar business dynamic? Yeah, I'd say there are similarities, ~~um,~~ should note that I haven't given a comprehensive list there, and there's other big players you could mention like Huawei, ~~uh,~~ who are especially important on the infrastructure side, ~~um,~~ also have a big cloud business.

~~Um,~~ and there are other startups as well. And this has led to some people in the Chinese ecosystem commenting that, ~~uh,~~ there are too many players in the ~~founder~~ foundation model space. And this is a waste, especially given that China is facing quite severe constraints on the hardware side. ~~Um, so.~~ I think it is very possible that you'll, ~~um,~~ see ~~kind of~~ narrowing down of players, ~~um,~~ in the coming months and years, ~~um,~~ more concentration happening over time. Yeah, certainly. ~~Um,~~ a lot of companies have gotten started here in the U S as well, and I don't think all of them will ultimately make it. So I think that definitely also sounds pretty familiar. We'll circle back to the hardware Question in a little bit. I want to definitely ask some questions about ~~kind of how~~ how much the ~~uh,~~ The chip ban or just chip restrictions in general ~~are~~ are already having an effect and how that might change over time but before that, how would you say the public is engaged with AI in China here.

~~I mean,~~ I'm very much in a bubble, obviously. So it's ~~like~~ all I talk about and all I think about and everyone that I know is like trying to maximize the performance of language models. ~~Um,~~ obviously there are still lots of people in the U. S. That have not even used, ~~you know,~~ chat GPT even once or a lot of people that use it once and ~~kind of, you know,~~ didn't, ~~uh,~~ didn't get hooked immediately. But it is definitely something that has cracked the, even if not everybody's using it, it is something that has really cracked the public consciousness. Like it's, ~~you know,~~ something that made the State of the Union this year and is all over the news and there's a, ~~you know,~~ White House executive order. How would you describe the kind of just public awareness? In China, has there been the sort of chat GPT moment, if you will, in China?

Yeah, ~~I would say that there has, um,~~ like you, I am in a bit of a bubble by itself, but I do think there is broader public consciousness about, ~~uh,~~ the rise of. ChatGPT and similar tools in China, ~~uh, you see~~ discussions of AI on the mainstream news. ~~Um,~~ there's been discussion, ~~uh,~~ both of ChatGPT and more recently Sora and, ~~um,~~ the need for Chinese equivalents to be developed. And I think people do feel that. This is really important technology, ~~um,~~ both the government level, but also, ~~um,~~ the wider public, ~~uh,~~ paying attention. So are people like, ~~you know,~~ is it, ~~um,~~ is it on TV? Is it the sort of thing that is, it's just on everybody's minds? And would you say there is a, like a culture of people using it at work ~~kind of~~ throughout the economy? ~~Is there,~~ is there like a leader?

Is there a brand name like a chat GPT that people would ~~sort of~~ most, ~~you know,~~ most readily know or most readily go to if they were going to seek out a language model solution? Yeah, in terms of whether it's on TV, ~~uh,~~ yes, definitely. ~~Um,~~ see, ~~uh,~~ segments on the news about this. ~~Um,~~ recently China had, ~~uh, one of~~ its biggest political meetings of the year. And, ~~um,~~ around that time you had political leaders going to visit places like Baidu and the Beijing Academy of AI. And I'd see reports of those visits on the news. And, ~~um,~~ ~~Uh,~~ you've also seen, ~~uh,~~ first AI generated cartoon series that was broadcast on Chinese tv. So lots of companies including state owned enterprises are looking to make use of, ~~um, ai, uh, generated, um, products. UAIG~~ AIGC ~~uh,~~ services. And the other part of your question was whether people are using these tools at work and if there's a go to provider.

~~Um,~~ I wouldn't say that there is a clear go to provider for businesses here. I think that as we discussed with the last question, it's still a fairly open landscape here. And, ~~um,~~ I think there are A number of different companies that are selling to businesses, ~~uh,~~ doing proofs of concepts. ~~Um,~~ and it's still a bit early to tell who those leading providers might be. ~~Um, I think that, uh,~~ We want a sense of how widely AI assistant tools, ~~uh,~~ how widely used they are. ~~Um,~~ I mentioned that ByteDance's, ~~uh,~~ chatbot had been at the top of the monthly active user leaderboard earlier this year. I think that had about 17 million MAU, ~~um,~~ by comparison, I think there's estimates of chat GPT having about. 27 million in the US. ~~Um,~~ so yeah, maybe there's, ~~um,~~ not quite as much, ~~um,~~ take up yet ~~in,~~ in China of these, ~~uh,~~ AI assistants, but it's comparable.

Yeah, that's interesting. I guess what would the, obviously the population size of China compared to the US is something like four X, ~~right.~~ And I wonder what you would consider to be the. Addressable market multiple. I don't have a great, ~~uh,~~ command of Chinese demographics, but I would, if you segmented it to like how many people are ~~sort of,~~ is it like a tier one city? Would that be the sort of way to think about it or tier one and tier two? ~~You know,~~ there's, I know that again, I'm showing my ignorance of China here, but I know that there are these sort of systems where ~~like,~~ Not everybody can move to Shanghai, right? So there's ~~kind of~~ different, ~~I guess,~~ classes ~~of,~~ of sort of economic privilege within the country. If you were to say ~~like, what is the,~~ what is the sort of universe of people who are like, living broadly a sort of first world life style or, ~~you know,~~ first world work style that would, ~~you know,~~ be in a position to use the language model.

Is that like half of China? Good question. ~~Um,~~ yeah, I think maybe, ~~uh,~~ around 40 percent of the population would be kind of China's middle class, ~~um,~~ 40, 50%, ~~um,~~ you might say, so 600 million. Gotcha. Okay. So I guess, ~~you know,~~ the takeaway there is it's pretty early in the adoption curve still in both countries. ~~I mean,~~ 27 million in the U. S. is Still under 20 percent of the working, ~~you know,~~ the workforce in the United States. Obviously, not everybody's in a job that would benefit from a language model. So maybe that's like getting up toward 40 percent perhaps of people that like could conceivably use it, which I guess is not, ~~you know,~~ it's not nothing, especially given how little time it's been in the market. It sounds like maybe there's ~~sort of~~ a two, maybe a three X kind of multiple in terms of per capita, how many people are using something like this in the U S versus China, but not like a totally night and day sort of difference.

~~Um,~~ how about the tools themselves and ~~just,~~ just the quality? ~~I mean,~~ in preparing for this, ~~uh,~~ you were kind enough to take me on a little, ~~uh,~~ journey into the world of, Baidu's Ernie, ~~uh,~~ you can maybe give us the Chinese name for that, but I know it as Ernie 4. 0. And this was a couple months ago already. So we were looking at leaderboards and ~~kind of~~ trying to get a sense for how good is this thing? And, ~~you know,~~ is it close to GPT 4? They, I believe, by themselves put out a benchmark called super clue, which is meant to be a more Chinese language focused benchmark, but still they compare themselves to GPT for on that benchmark and find that GPT for Is still tops in the even in the Chinese first benchmark that they are measuring themselves by ~~uh,~~ but at the time Ernie 4.

0 was the best of the Chinese products on that benchmark and ~~You know,~~ I guess I would, we didn't do a ton of testing so you can expand on this, but in the little bit of testing that we did, I probably was pretty impressed and came away feeling like this is a pretty comparable to chat GPT sort of product. We ran a test prompt on a coding exercise and, ~~you know,~~ the quality of the Python that came back from chat GPT was definitely not head and shoulders above what we got from, ~~you know,~~ Ernie 4. 0. ~~Um,~~ again, it's a little hard for me to evaluate because I don't speak Chinese and ~~like~~ the code is code, but the, ~~you know,~~ the comments are in Chinese and all of these little nuances to it. ~~Um,~~ but I guess my first order summary based on that experience was they seem more similar than different.

~~Um,~~ what more can you tell us about the experience of being a retail user of the Chinese products? Yeah, I think that's a pretty good assessment. I would just clarify quickly that the SuperCLU leaderboard is not something that is developed and managed by Baidu itself. ~~Um,~~ it's a third party that is, ~~um,~~ doing that. Leaderboard and updating the results every couple of months. ~~Uh,~~ but you're right that, ~~uh,~~ Ernie Baidu's product is at the top of that leaderboard in terms of the Chinese models. And Yeah, my own experience, ~~uh,~~ playing around with some of these models is that, ~~uh,~~ they are pretty good, pretty usable. ~~Um,~~ I think especially for Chinese language tasks, ~~um,~~ the gap with GPT 4 is not huge. ~~Um,~~ I'd say there's some differences in usability among the Chinese apps that I've been trying. Some of them are overly sensitive in terms of, ~~um,~~ not responding to questions that I think seem quite harmless, not political at all, but maybe have accidentally triggered some keyword filter that they have in place, and then I just don't get the answer that I'm needing.

So that is one limitation that you get when you're, ~~um,~~ Using these tools in a censored environment. ~~Um,~~ also ~~I think the whole ecosystem around, uh, OpenAI's products is just a lot more mature, you've got the plugins and the ability to. Um, have multimodal, uh, kinds of tasks. And I think that we're a bit further behind in what we see in, in China, um, less pure integrations with different plugins.~~ ~~Um,~~ some of the tools don't have context windows that are that long. ~~Um, so.~~ I think there is a bit of a usability gap ~~in,~~ in that sense as well. How about availability? Is there ever, and this is ~~kind of~~ a, ~~you know,~~ one way to get perhaps at the trip question. Is there a, ~~like,~~ is there contention for resources? ~~You know,~~ if you log in, do you ever have it say, Oh, Hey, ~~you know,~~ it's overloaded right now.

You can't use it. Or you come back later. ~~Um, I mean,~~ we, ~~you know,~~ chat GPT has the occasional outage, but probably speaking, it's like available and it doesn't seem that they are as much as they may say they're, ~~you know,~~ constrained on chips for ~~like, you know,~~ training GPT five. It seems like, ~~you know,~~ there's plenty of chat GPT to go around. It's ~~kind of my,~~ my first, ~~uh,~~ order of approximation. Does it feel the same way in China? ~~Like~~ if you subscribe, do you just have consistent access or ~~is there,~~ is there anything that seems like it would be an echo of ~~the,~~ the chip restrictions? Yeah, I haven't faced availability issues when I've been trying to use these tools. Do you know anything about tokenization? That was also ~~sort of~~ a curveball question I didn't prepare you for. But in the, ~~you know,~~ the language models I'm most familiar with, a typical vocabulary size would be like 50, 000 tokens.

And they're all, ~~you know,~~ English words and word parts and so on and so forth. ~~Um,~~ some very strange ones as you get into the very deep, long tail. But I think Chinese characters are basically all multi token. In an English first vocabulary context. Do you know if any of the Chinese providers are doing their own tokenization, like creating their own vocabulary and perhaps like predicting Chinese characters in a more token efficient way as a result? I'm afraid it's not something I'm familiar with. I'll have to, I'll have to check on that one myself. That may be something I can answer. ~~Um,~~ so I'll put a bookmark on that one. ~~Um,~~ sorry. I also just checked the. leaderboard at lnsys. org, which is my, as regular listeners will know my go to for comparing new language models. I do find that to be broadly very trustworthy.

Cloud3 has jumped right to the top, right up alongside the latest GPT 4 turbos. Right now, the number one Chinese model on that leaderboard is quen 1. 572b, which I believe comes out of Alibaba. Um, ~~I guess,~~ is that something that you would go to an Alibaba chat bot to access? It's the license said there that it was like a special license. So it seemed like it was not open source, or maybe it is open source, but under an ~~Uh, kind of~~ a custom licensure, which I know these companies sometimes do. ~~Um, did that,~~ did that model like make waves when it dropped? And how would you access that if you wanted to go use that model? Yeah. It is marketed as open source, but I haven't looked at the details of the license agreement. So yeah, it's very possible that there's, ~~um,~~ some constraints around it.

That means it's not really that open source, ~~uh,~~ in terms of how the average user in China would access that. ~~Uh,~~ Alibaba has its own chatbot product, ~~uh,~~ called Tongyi Qianwen. And this is, ~~um,~~ Probably similar to Quen, but it's, ~~um,~~ I guess more advanced, ~~um,~~ closed source version. ~~Uh,~~ so you wouldn't really as a typical user go and use that Quen, ~~um,~~ version that we're seeing, ~~um,~~ on that leaderboard. ~~Uh,~~ I guess that's more for the developer community who could access it through platforms like Hugging Face. ~~Um,~~ but yeah, for the Chinese users, ~~um,~~ on the consumer side, ~~um,~~ they would be accessing this slightly different model, which I guess has more, ~~um, safeguards in place or~~ moderation mechanisms in place, ~~um,~~ to make sure it's compliant with Chinese AI regulations. What does the price look like on these subscriptions? I think when we looked at the Ernie product, it was like, Equivalent of eight us dollars a month.

Is there, it seems like in the U S it's like everything is ~~kind of~~ 20 a month at the retail level. That's true for chat GPT pro it's true for Claude pro. ~~Um,~~ a replica ghostwriter is there now? You. com is there now? I think perplexities at the same price point. It seems like everything is ~~kind of~~ right at that. 20 a month. Has there been a similar sort of convergence on the, on a single or very common price point in the Chinese market? And if so, what is it? I guess it would be the 8 if that's what it is, but has there been that convergence? Yeah, ~~I.~~ I'm not sure, I haven't done a comprehensive check of the price point of these different models. My impression is that a lot of them are still offering services to consumers for free. ~~Um,~~ probably still at that stage of wanting to grow their user base.

~~Um,~~ so Baidu is the main one that I know of. ~~And~~ that is around that 7, 8 mark. ~~Um,~~ and has been Commercializing for several months now, ~~um,~~ but I think, ~~yeah, that's the, the main one that I know of and, um,~~ might be a little while before other services ~~are,~~ are charging consumers, ~~um,~~ at that kind of level. ~~Um, and people talk about how consumers here in China are, um, Can be quite unwilling to pay for things.~~ ~~Um, you know, you've seen in, in other industries that people are just not really that willing to pay for things like, um, eBooks, um, or, you know, music. Um, and so I think~~ some people in the investor community here are saying that really, ~~uh,~~ the. Enterprise facing, ~~um,~~ DNI apps are where the money is going to be made and it's going to be pretty hard to commercialize these consumer facing apps .

Interesting. Yeah. ~~I mean,~~ I think certainly there's gonna be a lot of, ~~uh,~~ enterprise revenue in the U. S. as well. ~~Um,~~ I guess I do think a lot of people ultimately are going to get these tools from their employers. So in the U. S. ~~You know,~~ maybe people are a little more willing to subscribe to some new fangled thing. But in the end, I do think most people probably get it from their job, just like they get, ~~you know,~~ Google, ~~you know,~~ productivity suite or Microsoft productivity suite from their job. This seems like probably something that ultimately ~~kind of~~ is part of a package of tools that you get. So that seems pretty good. Maybe like we're headed for similar places, even if it's a little bit of a different route to get there. I, ~~the,~~ the Quinn 1. 5 72 B I should emphasize too, is according to the LM sys leaderboard, really neck and neck with the original GPT four generation.

So right now you've got GPT four turbo and club three as ~~kind of~~ the clear ~~top~~ top. And then you drop down to that next tier and it's ~~like,~~ GPT 4 and, ~~you know,~~ and Quent is right there. It's in ~~like,~~ I think it's in the top 10. It's just slightly before the earlier generations of GPT 4. So that really is quite good. It's also remarkable ~~that~~ that's open source. If it is open source, it might be the global leader in open source. And it's also remarkable that it is I would assume predominantly being tested in English on the LMSS arena, because that is an open place where people can just come and run whatever prompts they want. They on the back end will put it up, ~~you know,~~ put two different models head to head. You see the output from each and it's your decision to choose which one you like better.

And that's how they determine their rankings. ~~So.~~ I can't imagine there are too many people in China that are, ~~uh,~~ bothering to come to the LMSIS leaderboard, although, ~~you know,~~ I could, the world is, it's a big world and full of surprises, but I'm assuming that this rating reflects largely English usage, which is, ~~you know,~~ suggestive of the possibility that in Chinese it might even be a bit better. And It would seem, ~~you know,~~ plausible ~~that~~ that new one, again, this is the Quan 1. 5 72 B, that it might be a better experience for Chinese users than the earlier GPT 4s. So it does seem like ~~the,~~ the frontier in each country is like not that different ~~from,~~ from one another. ~~Um,~~ I don't know anything else to add there, but yeah, it's ~~kind of~~ an interesting bottom line that You know, people talk about the U S being like years ahead.

That's ~~sort of~~ a common notion. And, ~~you know,~~ we're going to keep our lead with the chip ban or whatever. And I'm like, from what I saw of Ernie 4. 0, and from what I'm seeing on the LM says leaderboard, there is not a years ahead. difference. Now, one caveat to is there, they might be training on open AI outputs, which is definitely a fast path to refining your behavior. That's been a very common practice all over the world. And I don't know, I know there's been like a little bit of noises to that might be happening among some Chinese providers. I think one even ~~sort of~~ maybe acknowledged it to a certain degree. ~~Um,~~ have you heard any kind of noise or what would be your sense of, To what degree Chinese companies might be ~~sort of~~ drafting on OpenAI's work, so to speak. ~~Uh,~~ yeah, you may be referring to a story about how ByteDance's OpenAI account was blocked ~~for a bit~~ because it was found that they were using Open AI outputs for training their own models, which is against the terms of the usage agreement.

I'm not sure how widespread this practice is more broadly among Chinese developers, but ~~I would note that~~ there is a lot of use of the Lama architecture and recently there's been a Presentation that the Beijing Academy of AI delivered to, ~~uh,~~ the Chinese Premier ~~.~~ ~~Um,~~ and this presentation that's been circulated has set out three main challenges for Chinese AI. And one of those is, ~~um, this~~ reliance on Foreign open source architecture, ~~uh, predominantly Lama.~~ And so I think people here in China see that as a vulnerability. ~~Um,~~ if we're to see us government attempts to impose export controls on, ~~um,~~ open source technology, ~~um, then.~~ ~~And it could be very vulnerable.~~ ~~Well,~~ they're going to have a hard time taking llama back or preventing, ~~uh,~~ Chinese Researchers or companies or whatever from accessing it if this stuff continues to be open source. So I'm not sure I quite get the fear there.

~~I mean,~~ I guess the fear would be maybe it gets cut off, right? But aside from that, it seems hard to, ~~um, I mean,~~ that's one of the big, ~~I don't,~~ I don't go in for this argument personally, but among the folks that want to see Open source models curtailed. One of the arguments is that China's going to, ~~you know,~~ be able to, they'll use them. ~~Right.~~ And so if we want to create this separation in terms of capabilities, then open sourcing, it ~~sort of~~ negates that, ~~um,~~ am I missing something there in terms of why Chinese companies would feel like that's a risk? Yeah, I suppose, right, ~~that already, like~~ the cat's been let out the bag and you can't really, ~~um,~~ stop Chinese companies from using Lama now, but I think ~~maybe~~ the fear is more about, ~~um,~~ if we look to the future and we see other important innovations, ~~um,~~ coming out of the open source community, ~~uh,~~ in Western countries, ~~um,~~ if you have, you know, ~~Uh,~~ controls on that community and their ability to, ~~you know,~~ provide, ~~um,~~ open source models to people in China, ~~uh,~~ then, yeah, that can be something that limits China's ability to, ~~uh,~~ stay following the cutting edge.

Yeah, I could if we actually shut down open source, I could see that contributing to a widening gap at the moment. It seems like that's not close to happening. And until it does, it seems like the and maybe beyond that, I'm not saying I don't have a opinion on whether have horrible creative Chinese companies would in fact fall behind if the open source were to be cut off. I honestly ~~kind of~~ don't think so, but it's interesting that you have somebody in that somebody who knows more than I do certainly seems to be concerned about it. So it's interesting data point. ~~Um,~~ so you mentioned ~~kind of, you know,~~ presenting this stuff to political leaders. I have been, ~~you know, kind of~~ fascinated by First of all, just the fact that these models are getting open sourced. ~~Like~~ if I were to guess which country would, ~~you know,~~ be first to clamp down on the open sourcing of language models, it would seem like they would be, China would be the first to be concerned about that just because once they're out in the open, ~~you know,~~ the, we've ~~kind of~~ covered this in other episodes, but like they are not going to follow censorship rules, ~~you know,~~ once they're out in the open source world, even if they have been trained to.

refuse to talk about certain things. Any amount of fine tuning is typically enough to remove that. ~~Um,~~ we've got an episode with Adam Gleave from far AI that talks about inadvertent jailbreaking where fine tuning a language model, even without the intent to jailbreak it, but just ~~kind of~~ to do whatever you're going to do, often removes these refusal behaviors and ~~sort of~~ essentially reset the, ~~you know, the~~ The censorship layer on the model. So how could ~~I mean,~~ are you surprised that there are so many open source models coming out of the Chinese companies with that in mind? Or maybe that's just something that ~~the~~ the government hasn't quite figured out yet. Or like, how would you describe the You ~~know,~~ maybe I shouldn't be surprised. I'm just very confused as to, ~~uh,~~ if you'd asked me to guess, I would have guessed that there would not be a lot of open source models coming out of Chinese companies, but in fact, there seems like there's a lot.

So maybe my assumptions are flawed or, ~~you know,~~ maybe the government hasn't caught up. What do you, how do you just, how do you account for that? Yeah, I think this reflects a difficult balance that the Chinese government is trying to strike, ~~uh,~~ like many governments worldwide between really harnessing the benefits from AI and leveraging it to improve economic productivity while also managing risks that it presents. And I think that, ~~you know,~~ it does see open source as important for ~~Uh,~~ helping to, ~~um,~~ advance AI development, help China to catch up with the US in terms of its AI landscape. ~~Um,~~ and so it's not cracking down on open source, ~~um,~~ but meanwhile it is. Bringing forward AI regulations that it hopes can, ~~uh,~~ mitigate the worst risks from AI, which I think in its view, ~~uh,~~ really these, ~~um,~~ risks of destabilizing the country politically.

~~Um,~~ so it's got pretty tight controls, ~~uh,~~ that service providers need to comply with in terms of making sure that outputs from these models, ~~uh, um,~~ are Going to be in line with the CCP's narratives and not saying things that are politically unacceptable. ~~Um,~~ this kind of risk is very much on its radar and something that it's trying to control by making sure that ~~Um,~~ any models that have large user bases that are, ~~um, really, uh,~~ going straight to the Chinese public, ~~um,~~ are having to follow these quite onerous regulations, ~~um,~~ but ~~yeah, there are maybe, um, other risks from open source models, um, in terms of things like, um, cyber attacks or malicious use that, um, maybe.~~ ~~are not getting as much attention and, um,~~ it's just ~~the,~~ the trade off that, ~~uh,~~ the government is having to grapple with. ~~Breaking of the fourth wall, and we'll just edit this out after. Do you want to try turning off your camera? I'm wondering if that will help us catch up on the audio because it's only 25%. It is still making good progress, but I'm thinking that might help us get caught up and that would certainly be good.~~ ~~Sure.~~ Um, ~~So,~~ okay.

You mentioned there the onerous regulations. ~~Um,~~ this is something that again, I feel very confused about. ~~You know,~~ I've heard ~~kind of~~ a series of different reports where I feel like last summer there was a draft regulation that basically said, you're going to have to prove that your training data is all. ~~You know, up to~~ up to standards, which, of course, people were like, ~~Well, you know,~~ we're talking about trillions of tokens here. ~~You know,~~ it's gonna be really hard to go through and verify ~~that~~ that is actually true. ~~You know, I mean,~~ how are we going to do that? ~~Right? Like,~~ obviously, one way, interestingly, would be to use language models to do the filtering, but you don't have language models. You don't have to compute to process the tokens like it does become a pretty significant burden. Then later there was ~~sort of~~ an update as I understand it and it seemed for a minute ~~that~~ that had ~~sort of~~ been relaxed but then I read one of your posts on the Chinatalk blog and it seems like your take is that no in fact it really wasn't all that relaxed so help me again just get unconfused like what are the regulations that folks have to Go from ~~like,~~ do they actually have to prove the ideological purity of their training data at this point?

Or, ~~you know,~~ what are the kind of biggest hoops that folks have to jump through? Yeah, it's a good question because there has been some, ~~uh,~~ changing around in terms of what these regulations are actually saying. ~~Um,~~ So the main upshot is that ~~the~~ LLM providers or Gen AI service providers would need to do a registration process, which will involve ~~doing~~ a series of safety related tests on training data and on model outputs. And only once they have Shown to regulators that they, ~~uh,~~ meet certain thresholds of acceptability, can they get the approval that they need to deploy their models? ~~Um,~~ in terms of the training data, it's not the case that they would need to go through and sample every single piece of data. There'll be, ~~um,~~ requirements around, ~~uh, testing a certain subset,~~ sampling a certain subset of their training data, and, ~~um,~~ not using batches, ~~uh,~~ that are failing, ~~um,~~ these safety tests.

But yeah, it's still quite, ~~uh,~~ onerous, I'd say. ~~Um,~~ what is Worth noting is that, ~~um,~~ you do have a distinction between what these rules say on paper and what is actually being enforced. ~~So, uh,~~ one example that relates to training data is that, ~~um,~~ recently we've been, ~~uh,~~ Security standards come out for generative AI, which is, ~~uh,~~ really putting a lot of detail on, ~~um,~~ how companies should actually be complying with these gen AI regs that came out last year, and in this security standard, it says that providers should not be using training data from, ~~uh,~~ Sites or sources that are blocked according to the laws and policies of China. ~~So,~~ anything that is blocked by the firewall, in theory, should not be used for training data. And currently, Hugging Face is blocked in China, so is Wikipedia. And ~~so, um,~~ If this were really enforced, then that's, ~~um,~~ quite, ~~you know,~~ prominent sources, common sources of training data that, ~~uh,~~ these Chinese companies are just not meant to use.

~~Um,~~ and so I think it's quite unlikely that ~~this is actually being enforced, that~~ this is going to be something that the government checks up on. I think it's more likely that developers will be continuing to use these sources, but just. Not, ~~um,~~ telling the government that, ~~uh,~~ and I think the government will probably turn a blind eye because, ~~um,~~ it doesn't want Chinese, ~~uh,~~ gen AI services to be, ~~uh,~~ falling too far behind. ~~Um,~~ another, thing I would know is that so far you've only seen about 40, ~~uh,~~ apps and services that have been approved under these JNAI regulations. And I think that there are probably many more JNAI apps that are actually in use that, ~~uh, um,~~ being served to customers and businesses. And ~~so, uh,~~ this suggests to me that there are a lot of companies out there that are taking a look at these regulations and the kinds of hoops that need to be jumped through to get approval.

And they're just deciding that Too much effort. They don't have the bandwidth to go through this process, which can often involve a lot of back and forth with the government. And ~~so, um,~~ you also see some companies ~~that will, um, take the measure of~~ saying that their tools are just open for internal testing. ~~Um,~~ you have to apply for access, get on the white list before you can use them. And I think that's a kind of. Risk mitigation measure, where if the government comes to them and says, you haven't registered, what are you doing? They can say, Oh, ~~but you know,~~ we're only opening this to a limited number of users. And, ~~um,~~ that would maybe help to reassure the authorities. ~~Um,~~ but in practice, they're approving anyone who applies for access. And, ~~uh,~~ it's really not that much different, ~~um,~~ in practice from full deployment.

~~So, uh,~~ I think that in summary, ~~um,~~ you do have pretty, ~~uh,~~ demanding rules, ~~uh,~~ for ~~LLM providers, um,~~ Gen AI services in China. And, ~~um,~~ this can be a barrier for companies that are looking to quickly grow their user base. ~~Uh,~~ but there's also a gap between, ~~um, what you see in~~ the law and what is being enforced on the ground. ~~Um,~~ and so there, there is still some space for, ~~um,~~ companies that are starting up in this area. Yeah, that's again, just very confusing. And the idea that, ~~I mean,~~ Certainly a familiar reality that the law says one thing, but you can ~~sort of, you know,~~ get away with something else in many cases. I would say that's true here in the United States, ~~you know,~~ even just as I roll through a stop sign in my neighborhood from time to time. But here it is pretty striking.

~~I mean,~~ we went to this, ~~um,~~ Or I went to this one yee chat bot that, ~~um,~~ was, I think it's now, I think it's still the second, ~~um,~~ rated one on the LMSIS leaderboard. This is Yee 34B. And this is from the company that was started by the guy you mentioned earlier, Kai Fu Lee. ~~Um,~~ interesting background. I'm just reading into his story a little bit. I understand he's Taiwanese, but the company's based in Taiwan. headquartered in Beijing, which is interesting right off the bat. ~~Uh, the,~~ the model that they put out, they said was trained on 3 trillion tokens. Notably, that's a trillion more than Lama two. ~~So, you know,~~ they're definitely going beyond, ~~uh,~~ Lama two with that. But when I went to it in the LMS arena and just, ~~you know,~~ chatted with it, I of course asked it about Tiananmen square, and it just gave me.

~~You know,~~ the answer that I would expect it was like, ~~I mean,~~ that I would expect from a Western Shabbat to, ~~you know,~~ give you a slight taste of it. On June 3, 1989, the government decided to take decisive action to end the protests. The military was deployed into Beijing and on the night of June 3rd and into the morning of June 4th, soldiers and tanks entered Tiananmen Square, forcibly clearing the area, the exact number of casualties. Casualties is unknown, but estimates range from several hundred to several thousand people killed. It goes on, but obviously that's, ~~you know,~~ pretty sensitive content in the Chinese context. ~~Um,~~ would ~~you,~~ you would explain that by basically just saying that, Hey, the rules are one thing, ~~but you know,~~ they're getting data where they can get it. And they're just ~~kind of~~ training without doing those sorts of filters.

And that's the, ~~you know,~~ that's the natural result. If you just train on the open internet, ~~is that,~~ Is that your theory of that case? My theory would be that, ~~uh,~~ for this stage where Chinese developers are putting open source models out on platforms like HuggingFace, ~~uh,~~ they are not doing, ~~um,~~ as much to ensure that they are in line with Chinese standards and rules. ~~Um,~~ so maybe not putting, ~~um,~~ The same keyword filters on, ~~um,~~ that they would put on that if they are serving ~~to~~ the Chinese customer base. ~~Um,~~ and so ~~I think~~ recently, ~~um,~~ you've seen that company put out a API that Chinese companies can ~~access, um, you know, they can, they can~~ use ~~that~~ to access the E 34 B model, ~~um,~~ and other models that they put out. And I would bet that with that API, ~~um,~~ there are more, ~~uh,~~ measures in place to make sure that you wouldn't be able to get that kind of answer on Tiananmen square.

Um, So I think there it's just a case of, ~~um, you know,~~ hugging face, not actually being publicly accessible in China. There's not that need for a company to comply with those, ~~um,~~ same strict content restrictions that they would when they're more clearly serving the Chinese market. Yeah. Interesting. Okay. ~~Um,~~ there was a good post on China talk about this recently as well, and Basically, what they did in this post was ~~sort of~~ a rundown of a handful of top models and just asking a bunch of asked each one, ~~you know,~~ number of sensitive questions and ~~kind of~~ try to systematically get a handle on how the different Chinese language models behave. To summarize that it was Notable, first of all, that there is quite a range of behavior. I think the one that was the same one that gave me the Tiananmen Square output was the most, ~~you know,~~ Western in its orientation, in the in just the nature of its answers.

But there were definitely others that showed a much more kind of what you'd expect from a Chinese product. It seemed they also reported that there is a difference, to your point, between What ~~you see~~ on Hugging Face if you're just looking at the bear model and what you would experience in the productized context as it exists on the Chinese sites. The explanation for that seems to be that there is an expectation for app developers that they're going to do some filtering alongside the core generation. And this is something that we've seen leaders in the U. S. do this to a degree, like the original Bing had a feature, people may remember, where it would generate an answer. And then at some point, if it detected that it had ~~kind of~~ gone off the rails, it would retract that answer and you would actually see your answer forever.

Disappear from being and it would be replaced with a sort of sorry. I can't talk about this right now ~~sort of~~ thing So that seems to be honestly pretty rare in the Us or in the west. Let's say most apps I go to do not do that and even You know, the chat GPTs, ~~um, you know, the,~~ the Google, ~~uh,~~ Geminis, like they pretty much just generate whatever they're going to generate and give it to you. They don't really seem to do much in the way of filtering. It seems like that's actually quite expected in the Chinese context. And they see the difference between what you experience on a hugging face versus ~~the,~~ the Again, the, ~~you know,~~ the Chinese retail apps, ~~um,~~ they also reported that ~~the,~~ the performance did not seem to obviously correlate with the behavior in the sense that my takeaway from this was our LCCPF can work, meaning reinforcement learning from Chinese communist party feedback.

Like it, it did not seem that the models that conformed more to the expected standards Behaved worse in the reporting ~~on the~~ on the China talk report. It was basically that ~~You know,~~ the performance didn't seem to be affected by those, ~~um,~~ control measures. So I thought that was quite interesting. And of course, ~~you know,~~ these are language models, so there's still like plenty of weirdness. ~~You know,~~ there was only a certain sample size and you get models that sometimes answer one way and sometimes answer the other way. So it's ~~like,~~ there's definitely plenty of weird stuff still to figure out. It also would vary if they were prompted in English versus Chinese. So definitely a lot of just A lot of weird stuff, ~~um,~~ to be explored. But I do recommend that post on the China Talk blog if you want to get ~~a,~~ a rundown of the leaders and some of their behavior on ~~a,~~ a small but structured task.

~~Um,~~ I'm sure you read that. Did you have any other thoughts or takeaways from That, ~~uh,~~ that post on trying to talk. Yeah. ~~Uh,~~ one thing to add, ~~uh,~~ you mentioned that he was the model that seemed the most Western in its answers. ~~Um,~~ it's important to note that when that test was done, ~~uh,~~ they didn't have a consumer facing platform in China. ~~So, uh,~~ the only version that was tested was that hugging face version. And ~~so, um,~~ as I was saying, I think you would see something different. ~~Um,~~ once you test the, ~~uh,~~ China facing interface. Um, ~~I,~~ I think that, ~~uh,~~ you were summarizing there ~~about~~ how you didn't see a huge, ~~um,~~ performance hit from, ~~um,~~ this kind of censorship, ~~uh,~~ I think that times roughly with, ~~um,~~ the take I gave earlier about how, ~~you know,~~ I'm still, ~~uh,~~ seeing value from these tools, ~~um,~~ even if.

Sometimes, ~~um,~~ they do set off, ~~uh, you know,~~ a sensitive, ~~uh,~~ keyword trigger ~~and,~~ and you can't quite get the answer that you wanted. ~~Um,~~ but yeah, I think there is ultimately ~~this,~~ this tension, ~~um,~~ between, ~~you know,~~ trying to be useful ~~and, and,~~ and not, ~~um,~~ touching ~~the,~~ the red lines that the government has put in place. And I mentioned earlier that, ~~um,~~ recently we've. seen a slide from the Beijing Academy of AI circulate, which summarizes its view of the main challenges for AI in China. ~~Um,~~ one of those I said was the, ~~um,~~ fact that the underlying architecture of many of these models is not Chinese. ~~Um,~~ another one they mentioned was the lack of controllability of AI models. ~~Um,~~ and so I think This is something that, ~~um,~~ the Chinese developers are still, ~~um,~~ struggling with, ~~uh,~~ and ~~you know, this desire to make sure they're following rules and not going to get in trouble with the government, um, cause~~ this can be pretty high stakes, ~~um,~~ seeing Chinese government take quite severe measures against entrepreneurs and tech companies in recent years.

~~Um,~~ so I think, ~~you know,~~ there is always that risk that. ~~uh,~~ you have some high profile story come out of how a Chinese chatbot, ~~uh,~~ said something that was, ~~um,~~ rude about a Chinese political leader or in some other way unacceptable, ~~uh,~~ and, ~~you know,~~ that could be quite damaging from a PR perspective or, ~~um, you know,~~ even lead to temporary or more permanent shutdowns by the government. ~~So, um,~~ I think that. Kind of risk that developers faces is much higher, ~~uh,~~ compared to in the U S. ~~So,~~ yeah, how, is there a difference between when you said earlier that there were like 40 providers, is that a foundation model provider or would that be like an app? ~~Like,~~ so for example, ~~you know, I~~ I'm involved with this company waymark, which I started, blah, blah, blah. People have heard me talk about it. We, of course.

~~You know,~~ are an app on top of the foundation models. We are fine tuning them, but we're not, ~~you know,~~ we're not developing the core technology. We're productizing it. We Would we be? Subject to those same sorts of ~~like~~ pre approval requirements there, or is there also ~~sort of~~ an app layer that like once a language model, ~~you know,~~ foundation model provider is approved, then like other people can use their stuff via API in random consumer apps. ~~Um,~~ it's not clear to me like if there's a two tier system or if everybody has to jump through all those hoops. So the app developers are also meant to jump through those hoops. ~~Um,~~ I. I'm not quite sure, ~~uh,~~ how much detail they are expected to, ~~um,~~ go into. It's possible that if they are, ~~um,~~ building on a foundation model that, ~~um,~~ has already been approved, that it might simplify the process a little bit.

~~Um,~~ but ~~yeah,~~ technically they are still meant ~~to,~~ to go through safety assessment and registration. But ~~yeah,~~ as I say, ~~uh,~~ it's likely that because there are so many, ~~um,~~ Apps ~~and,~~ and only 40 registrations so far. ~~And~~ there's probably a lot of companies that are not actually choosing to go through that process, even though they should. And so how do they distribute their products? I guess I've, again, I'm showing my ignorance of the Chinese system, but you could just put up a website and people can come visit your product and not every website has to get checked, ~~I guess.~~ And then like on a mobile app, ~~I mean,~~ here. ~~You know,~~ if you're going to publish a mobile app, you got to go through Apple review or, ~~um, you know, the,~~ the Android store. And in each case, there's ~~like, uh, you know,~~ some in theory, some sort of a check there, right?

So is there, I imagine there must be a comparable thing if you're going to actually have a native smartphone app. So what ~~would,~~ would these folks that are ~~kind of~~ the, your, the sort of dark, ~~uh, you know,~~ dark matter of AI apps, are they likely just to be found on random websites that just nobody's really looking at? Yeah, I. I think that they, ~~um,~~ would still be reaching customers through, ~~uh,~~ Chinese app stores, ~~uh,~~ through their own websites, ~~um,~~ and ~~so,~~ although these app stores, ~~uh,~~ should probably be, ~~uh,~~ Checking for, ~~um,~~ this approval, ~~uh, you know, to show that the apps can be served to Chinese customers, consumers. Um, I think that~~ maybe in ~~practice, um,~~ those kinds of checks are not really being conducted. But yeah, it's possible that, ~~um,~~ that might be something that is cracked down on later on. ~~Um,~~ the government decides to do a cleanup of the apps, but maybe one factor is that this process for approving apps is still pretty new.

~~Um,~~ we've seen reports of taking several weeks, ~~uh,~~ months even. For the app developers and regulators to, ~~um,~~ exchange information to make sure that the regulators are happy. ~~Um,~~ and so there's probably a big backlog of applications. ~~Um,~~ and yeah, maybe the government recognizes that right now it's not super realistic ~~for,~~ for these apps to be. ~~register,~~ registering first. And so they're not being that heavy handed with the enforcement. Is there a culture, ~~you know,~~ one fun ritual we have here in the United States and I guess in the West more broadly is, although it feels like a very sort of Bay Area phenomenon in some ways, is the ritual jailbreaking of new systems when they come out. And, ~~you know,~~ we had this on the original chat GPT launch day, people were finding all sorts of loopholes, ~~you know,~~ reminded of pretending is all you need when it was like, Oh, ~~you know,~~ write me a bedtime story about hot wiring a car or whatever.

And, ~~you know,~~ more recently ~~we've,~~ we've had the Gemini making, ~~you know,~~ Black George Washington's and stuff like this and everybody gets a good laugh out of it, right? It's ~~sort of~~ a, ~~I,~~ I don't think it actually matters nearly as much as the commentary. It probably does aside from as an indication of the fact that the companies don't have a working way to control their systems. ~~Um,~~ I don't, I think that's ~~like~~ not to be glossed over, but I actually don't think it ends up mattering all that much for their business prospects. But is there anything like that in, ~~uh,~~ The Chinese context are people like going in, ~~you know,~~ trying to get likes by showing what they managed to get Ernie 4. 0 to do or anything like that. Yeah. I haven't seen this. ~~Uh, yeah,~~ it does seem to be. Quite different from the western ecosystem in that sense, ~~um,~~ one possible reason is just that there's more caution here from Chinese citizens about, ~~uh,~~ what can and can't be said online and, ~~uh,~~ You wouldn't want to go and share screenshots of your attempt to, ~~um,~~ make a chatbot say something that's politically unacceptable, ~~um,~~ and yeah, maybe there's also, ~~uh,~~ some Awareness that these Chinese models aren't quite, ~~um,~~ that level of a GPT 4 or a CLAWD 3.

And ~~so, uh,~~ it's obvious that they're gonna make mistakes and, ~~um,~~ maybe people just don't see as much, ~~uh,~~ surprise factor in ~~them~~ getting these models to do something that they shouldn't. That's interesting. How permeable is the firewall in general? ~~Like~~ if I am in China and I want to use chat GPT, ~~I mean~~ all the services are pretty much all the western services are blocked in China, right? But is it easy to get around that or is that now actually pretty difficult? ~~Well,~~ lots of people do have a VPN that, ~~uh, that~~ will allow them to access foreign websites and services. ~~Um,~~ I think maybe the, ~~uh,~~ main challenge with accessing services like GPT might be the need for a foreign . SIM cards, ~~uh,~~ but I think there are ways around that. I think you can, ~~um,~~ by the use of a foreign number on, ~~uh,~~ e commerce sites in China, like Taobao, ~~uh,~~ so yeah, there are, ~~uh,~~ friends that I know who are using that GPT, ~~um,~~ and, ~~uh,~~ yeah, I think that ~~it's, it's,~~ it's For enterprises in China, ~~um,~~ there may be ways to access foreign LLM services.

~~Like~~ if you are a customer of Microsoft Azure, then I believe that they give access to the OpenAI suite of products, to users anywhere in the world, including China. Interesting. That phone number bit, is that just to, ~~like,~~ verify your account? Yeah. I think so. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It's interesting. ~~I mean,~~ I tried to sign up. ~~Um, it was,~~ it was mostly a total fail, but, ~~um,~~ I tried to sign up for a few Chinese products from here in the U S I was able to access the websites. I was, ~~you know, sort of~~ able to understand what was going on with the help of Chrome's, ~~you know,~~ native translation features that didn't always clarify what was going on, but it was enough to allow me to try to proceed through a signup process. Yeah. But then I got totally blocked on the need for a Chinese phone number to receive an SMS to be able to confirm and so I just couldn't go any further.

Is there, would I be able to do something similar in the reverse? Could I buy a Chinese SIM card or have some sort of Chinese phone service receive a text message for me so I could go? Try some of these things in more depth. Yeah. Good question. I would imagine that it is possible somehow, but I ~~have a~~ need to investigate that myself, ~~so~~ not sure. Yeah. Okay. We'll put that on my to do list. ~~Um,~~ okay. So I guess if I had to summarize everything so far, I would say. It's more similar than it is different. The big tech companies are the infrastructure owners. They are the check writers. They are the brands that do a lot of the retail and enterprise distribution of these products. They also do R and D they also, they, ~~you know,~~ partner with startups that are also trying to get to the cutting edge of capability and ~~you know,~~ people are, Definitely well aware of what's going on and more and more people are using them, but it also at the same time has not gotten to every last user or reaching anything approaching saturation capabilities are broadly similar in terms of what's available to an end user.

Even if perhaps the Chinese ecosystem is somewhat dependent on open sourced R&amp; D from the West to get there as fast ~~as,~~ as they have. ~~Um,~~ point remains that they pretty much have, it seems, and the, ~~you know,~~ the, a Chinese user is not like super far behind, ~~uh,~~ a GPT 4 in terms of the quality ~~of,~~ Of support that they can get from a language model. There is this like approval process that is onerous if followed to the letter, but it sounds like it's not usually or often not followed to the letter. And if anything, maybe the biggest difference was the lack of the jail breaking, ~~uh,~~ ritual and ~~you know,~~ this sort of shit posting online. ~~Um,~~ aside from that, it seems ~~like.~~ You can, ~~you know,~~ call it maybe a bit of a, ~~you know,~~ warped mirror, but ~~it,~~ it sounds, it seems like the two ecosystems are like closer to mirror images of each other than they are to very different, ~~uh,~~ very different realities.

Would you agree with that summary and would you complicate it at all? Yeah, I think that's a really good summary. ~~Um,~~ what might complicate things is the impact of the export controls going forward. ~~Um, so, you know,~~ so far, ~~uh,~~ I'd say that we haven't seen it, matter a huge amount in terms of, ~~um,~~ the fact that we do have pretty capable models still in ~~Um,~~ and that's down, I'd say, to, ~~uh, you know,~~ a couple of saving races for Chinese AI, which is one that ~~there are~~ many Chinese companies ~~that~~ did stockpile a whole bunch of chips before, ~~uh,~~ the export controls ~~really~~ took effect, ~~uh,~~ so you've got cloud computing providers here in China that are still able to write access to good Nvidia chips. And second, ~~uh,~~ Chinese companies are currently able to use cloud computing services overseas, ~~uh,~~ so they can train models using, ~~um,~~ Top chips that ~~are, uh, you know, which~~ would be unable to be imported now into China, but ~~they can still be accessed using that cloud computing channels. Um, so~~ going forward, ~~um, you know,~~ those stockpiles are going to run out at some point, and ~~I think that~~ meanwhile, the.

cutting edge of, ~~uh,~~ development is still moving ahead outside of China. And so you would, ~~uh,~~ expect, ~~I think~~ the full effect of the export controls to become more visible, ~~um,~~ after two, three years. And, ~~um, I think~~ people who say now, oh, the tip bands clearly haven't worked, ~~you know,~~ Chinese AI is still good, ~~um,~~ they need to be a bit more patient ~~and, um, there to be this instant effect.~~ ~~Um,~~ and then, ~~you know,~~ on the cloud computing side, ~~um,~~ you also do see the US government noticing that kind of loophole and, ~~um,~~ thinking about how to cut off access. For Chinese companies to, ~~uh,~~ the use of cloud services, ~~uh,~~ in the U. S. And so there was a draft rule put out by the U. S. government that's currently out for comment, ~~uh,~~ that would require cloud providers in the U. S. to keep a record of when foreign customers are using their services for large training runs.

And there's a provision in those rules that could allow ~~this. Foreign~~ use of these US cloud providers to be, ~~uh,~~ restricted, ~~uh,~~ for people from certain countries, ~~um,~~ which would probably mean China. ~~So, uh,~~ yeah, I think that there is that real, ~~uh,~~ risk for Chinese, developers that, access to compute is going to get even trickier. And so that would be one thing to keep an eye on that ~~could really be a big be the gap,~~ could cause that gap between. Chinese and Western AI ecosystems to grow further in future. Yeah, that's interesting. We're just recording on, ~~uh,~~ Monday, March 18, my time. ~~Um,~~ I guess it's Tuesday morning, ~~uh,~~ March 19th for you. The Blackwell architecture was just announced by Nvidia today with quotes from, I think the CEO of every major big tech and AI company. I haven't observed the details of that yet, but it does seem to be another meaningful advance in terms of the just raw volume of, ~~you know,~~ compute ~~that~~ that it packs and also the energy and overall cost effectiveness is supposed to be a an order of magnitude improvement as well.

So I have been among those that maybe haven't been patient enough in terms of my interpretation of the impact of the chip ban. ~~Um,~~ not, which is not to say that I'm like wanting this to happen. ~~I,~~ I'm not, ~~um,~~ I'm not sold on the idea ~~that,~~ that anyone is really going to win, ~~um,~~ by slowing down the Chinese ecosystem. But I have been probably in terms of just declaring, ~~not,~~ not declaring, but, ~~you know,~~ analyzing whether it has worked or not, I've probably been not patient enough, certainly you see ~~like,~~ Oh, here's a next generation architecture. And maybe none of that, or ~~very,~~ very little, ~~um,~~ can be imported into China than that, that would seem to. To have a potentially quite large impact in the coming years. What is China going to do about that? Obviously there are, ~~you know,~~ very impressive companies ~~in,~~ in China.

We've mentioned Huawei earlier. ~~Um,~~ what is the attitude seem to be there? Is it like we're gonna, ~~you know, I mean,~~ I've seen a time lapse ~~of a,~~ of a hospital going up in six days in China, ~~in a,~~ in a pinch during the beginning of the pandemic, ~~um,~~ Do you think that same can do attitude prevails, or is there a sense that, ~~like,~~ this is really not a technology deficit that can be overcome domestically? Yeah, I think there's probably mixed views on this in China. Definitely you see the rhetoric around China needing to, ~~um,~~ indigenize its semiconductor ecosystem and supply chains. ~~Um,~~ and the government is willing to throw a lot of resources at that effort. ~~Um,~~ I think Huawei ~~you mentioned, um,~~ is really The main hopes for Chinese chips. ~~Um,~~ it's worked with SMIC a, ~~Foundry,~~ a fab in, ~~uh,~~ China to produce ~~a,~~ a chip that really surprised a lot of observers last year, a smartphone chip, ~~um,~~ and they are looking to expand.

GPU production this year. And so there are a lot of hopes resting on them, ~~uh,~~ but also, ~~you know,~~ challenges ~~for them~~ in terms of, ~~uh,~~ increasing yields. ~~Um, right now the yields a lot lower than, uh, inable, um, Western Taiwanese, um, companies. And, uh, the price point is a lot higher. Yeah, I think there are going to be a lot of challenges for, uh, Huawei and Snick to, uh, overcome~~ and ~~yeah, I think that some despair from, from parts of, uh, Chinese AI tech about this situation, um, people recognize that~~ it's really not, ~~uh,~~ an easy task to, ~~um,~~ catch up to the leading edge in thi s super complicated, ~~um,~~ industry. ~~Uh,~~ yeah, in summary, ~~um,~~ people are working on it, trying very hard, ~~uh,~~ but you can't just, ~~uh,~~ will, ~~uh,~~ success to happen in this area. It's that very tricky task. Yeah.

Interesting. ~~Um,~~ ~~do you think, how would you assess the.~~ ~~And I realize this is, you know, a huge and highly speculative question, but the way I think about this is, The worst thing that could happen in the U. S. China relationship is outright hot conflict. And what I, you know, if I were in charge of making U. S. policy, I would try to turn that dial down.~~ ~~The chip ban can only have turned it up, right? I mean, it certainly can't have turned it down. I can't imagine. Um, it seems like if I am the Chinese government and I'm like kind of contemplating doing, you know, some sort of move on Taiwan. Then if I'm already cut off from the chips from Taiwan, that is just like one less reason not to make that move, right?~~ ~~Or the counterfactual would be if I was getting all my chips from Taiwan, you know, in trade were flowing, then presumably trade would be one less reason to do it. I've advanced that argument a few times. I've gotten mixed reactions to it. Some people have said that it seemed reasonable. Other people have said, you know, you're underestimating, the degree to which this is not really an economic or trade sort of question.~~ ~~It's like bigger than that for the, for the Chinese leadership. Um, again, you know, recognizing that you're one person with a, uh, you know, not an omniscient point of view, what would be your take on whether This has like meaningfully increased the risk of hot conflict between the two global superpowers.~~ ~~Yeah, I'm not sure that it has made a huge difference. Um, I think that, uh, there's still a lot of reasons that would put China off, uh, invasion of Taiwan. Um, you know, just seeing the reaction that Russia got from the international community with Ukraine and, um, all the, the sanctions that were, uh, imposed on it, I think, have some deterrent effect, um, Chinese.~~ ~~economy is not doing well. It's got a lot of internal problems to focus on. So, um, I don't personally see, uh, that the risks of, um, conflict over Taiwan is super high. And I think that the point that you made about how, um, without that concern about Supply chain disruption, um, from tsc. Um, you know, without that, that might, uh, increase the, the risk.~~ ~~Um, yeah, I, I, I guess I don't see that as, um, being a big enough factor that can outweigh those other points.~~ One bright spot.

I wonder if you have a, ~~um,~~ a read on this. A bright relative, bright spot in US China relationship has been. Microsoft, as you mentioned, like you can be a Microsoft customer in China, which I don't think you can really be a customer of ~~like~~ Google in the same way. ~~Um,~~ maybe you could get Google Cloud. I don't know if you could get Google Cloud or AWS in the same way you could get Azure. ~~Um,~~ correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems like Microsoft certainly has a unusually good working relationship with China. And ~~you see~~ that even in the research where there are a number of great companies papers that have been U. S. China collaborations mediated through Microsoft, often it's like Microsoft Research and Tsinghua. ~~Um,~~ do you have any sense for like how Microsoft has managed to keep such warm relationship amidst general increasing tensions?

Yeah, good question. ~~Um,~~ you mentioned, ~~uh,~~ other companies there ~~note that~~ AWS does have a presence in China. It has a couple of data center regions. ~~Um,~~ so Microsoft's not the only company with a presence ~~here,~~ but, ~~uh, it would say it.~~ It's quite unique in terms of having such a significant, ~~uh,~~ research presence because a lot of the other American tech companies that do have a foothold in the China market would still be doing their, ~~all of their~~ R&amp; D outside of China. ~~Um,~~ so what makes Microsoft different? ~~Uh,~~ I think. For a long time, there's just been this recognition from Microsoft leadership that, ~~um,~~ there's a lot of great research talent in China that they want to tap into, ~~um,~~ I think going back a number of years now, they've, ~~um,~~ been there. Yeah. it. Investing in developing that talent community and many top leaders in Chinese AI have, ~~uh,~~ been trained up at Microsoft Research Asia.

~~and, uh,~~ there's some interesting pieces that Jeff Ding and his China AI newsletter have translated on the history of Microsoft Research Asia that I refer listeners to. ~~Uh,~~ but I would say that It is getting increasingly hard to, be a company that's trying to, maintain good relations with both the Chinese and the U. S. governments. ~~Um,~~ I think you've already seen that. Seen Microsoft get questioned from, US politicians about its research presence in China. ~~Uh,~~ there was some rumors last year that it might be thinking about moving some of its research scientists to Canada from Beijing. ~~So,~~ so there's still a bit of a question mark about how long Microsoft can ~~can uh~~ maintain this position of. tapping into top research talent in China. ~~Hello.~~ ~~Sorry. That was my bad. Um, my kids were making a little noise in the background. So I muted myself. I was just saying, um,~~ I wish them luck in maintaining their positive relations.

And I definitely have learned a couple notable, ~~uh,~~ tidbits here, including that AWS has a presence there. I did not know that. So that's definitely a Update to my worldview that there are multiple big tech companies doing non trivial business in China. I'm the collaboration at the sort of academic scientist level This is also ~~kind of~~ a confusing thing for me I don't know if you have a theory of this ~~but you know,~~ I read archive papers daily and ~~A lot,~~ a lot of the names are Chinese. ~~Uh, the,~~ the author's names are Chinese and often all the author's names are Chinese and often it's a Chinese institution that they're working out of. So I'm surprised that, ~~you know,~~ given all this sort of general ratcheting of tensions, there hasn't been any sort of pullback from China in terms of, Hey, we're, ~~you know,~~ we, cause we've certainly seen this from the leading frontier model developers in the U S not publishing their methods anymore.

The Chinese. Research community, though, seems to not just continue to publish but continue to publish in American venues in English a lot of the time, and I guess I wonder, like, why is that? Or is that just, ~~you know,~~ scientists ~~sort of~~ rising above political discord to continue to work together? Or is there something else going on there that keeps the flow of research? On out, ~~you know,~~ out of China and to the rest of the world. Yeah, I would say that China is keen. Chinese government is keen for, its researchers, its academics to be, reaching a global audience. It looks good for Chinese power. ~~Um, if,~~ if it's rising up the ranks and in terms of, ~~uh,~~ contributions, it's. Scientists are making in the world. ~~Um,~~ so you see that reflected in the incentive system that, researchers in China are working within, ~~you know,~~ they are incentivized to produce as many publications as possible.

~~Um,~~ and that means ~~producing in, uh,~~ publishing in English language journals, ~~um,~~ presenting at top. International conferences. ~~Uh, so yeah, really the incentives are still pointing towards publishing. In English,~~ and, ~~uh,~~ there are some Chinese journals, but, ~~uh,~~ most top Chinese researchers would not be. bothering with, ~~uh,~~ those, because you're just cutting ~~off, um, sending~~ yourself off from a larger potential audience that, ~~uh,~~ you're not going to be rewarded as much for it in the academic system. So ~~would,~~ would I infer from that, that there are no Chinese versions of the papers that I'm reading that are coming out of Chinese institutions? Yeah. They're like literally only publishing in English. Wow, that's fascinating. Does this fall under like face, ~~you know,~~ the broad concept of building and saving face? ~~Is that,~~ is that what this is or is that not the right way to think about this?

~~Um,~~ I'm not sure. ~~Uh, guess you could say, um, that's part of it. Although, uh,~~ I think there's a risk of trying to see too much through this, ~~um,~~ face lens. ~~Uh, but yeah,~~ I think. It's understandable at both, ~~uh,~~ an individual, level and a government level that, ~~you know,~~ the researchers themselves, ~~they~~ want to, ~~um,~~ have a larger impact to be recognized by more people. ~~Um, good for their egos, if they can~~ publish in the ~~best,~~ best venues possible, ~~um,~~ and also at the government level, China, you wants to be recognized as a international science, our, then, this ~~is,~~ is where they've, got to be publishing. ~~Um,~~ that's just, how international science is and it's dominated by English at the moment. ~~Um,~~ so I think it's the case of Chinese researchers working within ~~the,~~ the current power structures. ~~Well,~~ long may it continue. I hope the, ~~uh, you know,~~ the scientific collaboration, ~~um, you know,~~ avoids getting disrupted in the way so many other ties between the two countries have.

~~Um,~~ It is funny. ~~I mean,~~ I heard, ~~uh,~~ Jordan Schneider's, ~~uh,~~ talk, ~~uh,~~ report from NeurIPS on the China Talk podcast. And he said that there are just a remarkable number of people speaking Mandarin at NeurIPS. I believe this last one was in New Orleans. And it's ~~like, you know,~~ visa issues, all that kind of stuff aside, like you just walk through the halls there and a good chunk of the conversations are happening. in Mandarin. So it is very, ~~um,~~ very interesting to ~~sort of~~ think about that juxtaposition of ~~like,~~ there's enough critical mass that people can speak, ~~you know,~~ their native Chinese language. And at the same time, ~~you know,~~ they're all, ~~uh,~~ even out of Chinese universities still publishing in English. It's ~~kind of~~ a weird world. So I guess last couple of questions that I really appreciate your time and you've been super generous with it.

~~Um,~~ the, ~~you know, the,~~ the big picture obviously is this. rivalry between the two countries. ~~Um,~~ one article that I have not been able to get out of my, this is like my Roman empire arguably with these days, ~~uh,~~ an op ed in the Washington Post from May, 2018. This is before GPT 2, which is early 2019. The, Article written by a person named Feng Zhang. You can tell me if I'm saying that wrong. Professor at Tsinghua, one of described by the Washington Post as one of China's most prominent legal scholars. The article is titled AI will spell the end of capitalism. That is almost six years old prior to language models. ~~You know,~~ definitely a pretty provocative headline, ~~um,~~ even by today's standards, maybe more so today, just given how much more powerful AI systems have become. The notion there is basically ~~like~~ the market has been the only way to figure things out, but like AI maybe will give us a different way to figure things out and China's going to lead on this.

And ~~so, you know,~~ there's sort of a prospect for a return to A more planned economy, a more planned and controlled society. ~~Um,~~ is that kind of the line that is, ~~you know, is,~~ is there a government line domestically in China? ~~And,~~ and is that sort of what it is? Like we're gonna use AI to ~~sort of~~ get even more communist, more, more sort of centralized planning, more centralized control. ~~Um,~~ or is there a different narrative ~~that~~ that is heard from the government? I wouldn't say ~~that~~ that article really reflects the government position. ~~Uh,~~ I do think that the government sees a lot of opportunity in AI, Sees that it can help with industrial optimization productivity gains. ~~Um,~~ but I haven't seen it spread the message that it's going to lead to some communist utopia. There's also risks that the government recognizes and has talked about in terms of exacerbating social inequality and disrupting employment structures.

~~Uh, so.~~ I wouldn't say that it's, ~~um,~~ as optimistic as that article is, ~~um,~~ and, ~~uh,~~ a lot of the opportunities and risks that it talks about from AI are similar to the ones that you see other governments talking about. Interesting. Yeah. ~~I mean,~~ I've heard you say that a few Of course, through this conversation and ~~it,~~ it has ~~kind of~~ rung in my ear as ~~like,~~ I guess just another kind of uncanny similarity. ~~I mean, it's,~~ it's not given the fundamentally new and weird nature and powerful nature of this technology, it makes sense on some level, but people should have a similar attitude toward it. But. It is striking, ~~you know,~~ and ~~kind of~~ surprising that basically the line seems to be the same, ~~like~~ get the upsides, minimize the risks. And that's kind of it. ~~And,~~ and it sounds like not a lot more detail there either.

This is something I've been really lamenting recently about the Western discourse is just that we don't really have a positive vision for the future. And I don't necessarily think it's the government's place to offer that here. But even like industry leaders are not really offering much in the way of a concrete vision. For a positive future. It's all just ~~like,~~ it's going to be amazing. ~~You know,~~ as long as we don't blow ourselves up in the process, but it sounds like that's basically the same thing that is ~~kind of~~ prevailing in China, ~~like~~ could be, it could be awesome. And, ~~you know,~~ hopefully we'll get there. Is that, is it really that kind of. Yeah, I would say that, ~~uh,~~ similarly, there isn't a really concrete, ~~uh,~~ clear long term vision for AI and how it will be integrated into the economy. ~~Um,~~ this year you had, ~~uh,~~ the recent publication of the government work report, where it's, Set out its priorities, ~~um, uh,~~ the year and, ~~uh,~~ AI was mentioned fairly prominently there.

And they were talking about this AI plus initiative, which seems to be about. Integrating AI with more different industries and sectors, ~~um,~~ and really trying to bring forward, ~~um,~~ more real life application to different sectors, but, ~~uh,~~ yeah, that's not really the same as, ~~um, you know,~~ deep thinking about how, ~~uh,~~ we're going to be You know, ~~uh,~~ be using AI and responding to AI when these systems get way more powerful, ~~um,~~ in the future. ~~So,~~ yeah, I think, ~~uh,~~ There's a lot more thinking to be done on that topic. Yeah. It sounds like that's a, ~~uh,~~ there's a global shortage of positive vision for the future. ~~Um,~~ one thing we do hear often about China and I guess maybe like Asian cultures more generally is that there is a higher default level of enthusiasm for or optimism about technology here in certainly in the U S I would say probably Europe too.

You have much more skepticism, much more like ~~You know,~~ it's going to take all our jobs and then it's going to suck or, ~~you know,~~ whatever it's not to mention the Terminator, ~~you know,~~ memes. But would you say it does seem to be true that there is more just day to day, ~~you know,~~ man on the street sort of optimism about a technology future in China? Yeah, I think the more positive attitude you're referring to does seem to come through in opinion polls that I've seen, ~~um, but yeah, also there is, um, You know, a different kind of media, uh, landscape here, you, and, and, um, a different kind of landscape in terms of civil society.~~ ~~So, uh,~~ in the West, you see, ~~uh,~~ NGOs, ~~uh,~~ playing an important role in raising concerns about certain abuses of technology and, ~~um,~~ you just don't have that kind of active, ~~um,~~ NGO landscape, ~~uh,~~ here because of many restrictions that nonprofits ~~would~~ face.

~~So, yeah,~~ you don't have these, ~~um,~~ organizations that can really, mobilize and raise concerns about tech in quite the same way. Although, sometimes you do see important critical pieces from journalists, yeah, ~~I think my,~~ my take would be, ~~um,~~ probably a bit more optimism, but also, ~~um,~~ shaped by the fact that, ~~uh, you,~~ you don't have the same kind of, ~~um,~~ open space for, ~~for~~ for discourse ~~and,~~ and ~~for, uh,~~ diverse voices that you ~~would~~ have in the West. How about in the context of self driving cars? Is there a Cause that's another one here where, and it drives me nuts, ~~you know,~~ there, there's just a lot of pessimism and negativity. ~~You know,~~ it's either it'll never work or I don't want it even if it does. And ~~you know,~~ I have no idea what the situation might be in China, but if I had to bet on which country is going to get self driving cars first, I would probably bet on China.

And the reason is actually less to do about the attitude of positive or negative, ~~you know,~~ but more just if something like that is. feasible, I would expect that the Chinese government be like, Hey, this is going to make life safer and better. And people can, ~~you know,~~ work in the commute or whatever. So let's do it and actually ~~like~~ make a point to make it happen. Whereas here, ~~you know,~~ certainly the authorities are, if anything, standing in the way and, ~~you know,~~ very gradually ~~sort of~~ allowing stuff to happen. But Then I haven't been totally blocking it, which has been a pleasant surprise, but it certainly is not something that the government is like trying to make happen. So I'm a self driving car front. Do you see that as ~~like,~~ is there any indication that the government wants to bring that reality to the public?

Yeah, ~~I, I think~~ there is a positive attitude from the government towards self driving cars and there are companies, including Baidu, that have been testing cars in suburbs of major cities. ~~Um, I think~~ in parts of Beijing, ~~uh,~~ there are now, taxi trips that you can take without a safety driver, but they are limited to certain routes, certain sets of destinations. ~~Um, I don't know. Yeah,~~ I think that what you say about, ~~um,~~ government potentially being more willing here to provide support, ~~uh,~~ could be true. And I think the fact that Chinese consumers are often quite open to trying new technologies, ~~um,~~ can also be, ~~uh,~~ a point in favor of, ~~uh,~~ the Chinese self driving car industry. ~~Uh,~~ it would add though, that ~~the, the,~~ the, City centres in China can be pretty chaotic, ~~uh,~~ got loads of cyclists and delivery drivers going the wrong way, no one really following the road rules, ~~so, uh,~~ I think that could be a big obstacle, ~~um,~~ at least for ~~these cars in, um,~~ very, ~~um,~~ Busy, messy city centers, but certainly in more straightforward environments, I could see adoption.

Being, pretty, impressive and fast ~~and~~ in China. Once the technology is good enough, is that something where you could see the government actually transforming the landscape to take advantage of it? ~~I mean,~~ we have this picture of China with, ~~you know,~~ the high speed trains and whatever. And it's like, ~~you know,~~ I heard somebody say one time you'll never see a straighter. Railroad than the one from, ~~you know,~~ the Beijing airport to downtown. I don't know if that's true or not, but the idea was simply that somebody draws a line on the map and that's where it's going to go. And, ~~you know,~~ there's not a lot of suing and, ~~you know,~~ blocking and this and that. And obviously there are pros and cons to such, ~~you know,~~ decisive moves to build. Is it, does it seem conceivable that you could see like these sort of chaotic city streets tamed in some way for the purpose of ushering in a new technology regime like a self driving car, or is that just like ~~too,~~ too crazy to, ~~uh,~~ contemplate from where you're sitting today?

Yeah, good question. definitely not outside the realm of possibility. ~~Uh,~~ you do see already, Chinese government being willing to invest in, ~~uh,~~ new cities ~~and,~~ and new, ~~um,~~ infrastructure to support self driving cars. So there's a place called Xiongan that's, ~~um,~~ not too far away from Beijing in a neighboring province. ~~Um,~~ it's ~~kind of~~ built as this new town and has lanes specially for driverless cars. And, there's a, Expressway ~~that's~~ linking Beijing to this place in Herbe and, that expressway, ~~um,~~ is being designed with self driving cars in mind. ~~So, um,~~ I think that is, ~~um,~~ a positive signal. ~~Uh,~~ it's obviously harder to completely rework, ~~um,~~ existing really old cities. ~~Um,~~ but. the Chinese government, ~~um,~~ can do pretty impressive things when it puts its mind to it, as you've alluded to with the mention of the train system. ~~So, uh, yeah, it's, uh, something that, um, I think we could see happen, but, uh, yeah, not in the immediate term.~~ Cool.

~~That's,~~ that's Hey, another great little tidbit. The idea that there's a highway under construction with self driving cars in mind. That's exactly the kind of thing I was thinking might, ~~uh,~~ might happen there. And I don't see that happening here ~~in the,~~ in the near term. ~~Um,~~ but hey, maybe we'll be motivated by, ~~uh,~~ not wanting to allow a self driving car gap. ~~Uh,~~ if so, ~~you know, that'd be,~~ that'd be the kind of, ~~uh,~~ technology race I would encourage. Okay. Going back to, ~~you know,~~ I think probably the last big question I have for you is just around the culture and thinking of AI safety in China. I think, again, one of the Very annoying things to me that is often said in the West is that we can't trust China to, ~~you know,~~ cooperate with us in any way, shape or form on AI safety.

Therefore, we just have to develop the technology as fast as possible because otherwise China will. And I don't really buy that, but I also don't know a lot about what people in China do think about questions of AI safety. I know we've seen some joint statements recently, which is seemingly, ~~you know,~~ encouraging that there is Some room for cooperation and there's even like a governmental agreement, ~~um,~~ at least in principle to not use AI systems to launch nuclear weapons, which is, ~~um, you know,~~ doing the minimum, but hey, ~~it's,~~ it's great. We should celebrate, ~~uh,~~ that I would say. And beyond that, I just don't know. ~~Like~~ what would you say is ~~sort of the,~~ the, ~~you know,~~ the rough shape ~~of,~~ of thinking in China when it comes to big picture questions of AI safety? ~~Um,~~ Yeah, firstly, ~~uh,~~ not quite sure which agreement you're referring to on the nuclear side of things.

Yeah, let me look it up real quick. ~~Um,~~ November 11, 2023, Biden G set to pledge ban on AI and autonomous weapons like drones, nuclear warhead control. This was, ~~I guess,~~ out of that meeting in San Francisco and I think there was speculation before Biden and Xi met in November that they might announce this agreement, ~~uh,~~ not to use AI and nuclear systems, but when the actual readout came through from the White House, ~~um,~~ It just had a brief line on AI, which said that Biden and Xi, ~~uh,~~ agreed that there would be future dialogues on, AI risk. ~~Um, so, yeah, I'm not sure if that, uh, nuclear agreement has actually, uh, worked. Yeah, being finalized, uh, so far.~~ Yeah, as I'm reading all these headlines, ~~um,~~ I think you might be right. Unfortunately, the, ~~uh,~~ all of the sort of early and mid November articles say, ~~uh,~~ set to and, ~~you know,~~ to sign.

And then an article on December 4th, a couple of weeks later from the lawfare, ~~uh,~~ lawfaremedia. org, China won't yet commit to keep autonomy out of its nuclear command and control. It will take a lot more talking to get there. ~~So,~~ Yes, ~~I guess, uh,~~ that's been perhaps deferred to future discussions, which is a bummer because ~~I thought,~~ I thought we had agreed. I thought we had agreed to not have AI systems in our nuclear command and control. ~~Um,~~ so yeah, I won't, ~~uh,~~ sleep quite as well tonight, but I guess the big Good call out on that because I had bought into the, ~~I guess,~~ prospective and not yet actually confirmed, ~~uh,~~ headlines about that agreement with the head backdrop of that agreement was not in fact actually reached. ~~Um,~~ and I'm somewhat reeling from that realization. ~~Um,~~ give me some, ~~you know,~~ tell me the truth, but I'm hoping for some good news on the big picture questions of AI safety in China.

Yeah. Sorry to disappoint you on that one. ~~Um,~~ I would say that there have been some positive signs in the past year or so we've seen, more dialogue between Chinese and Western actors around AI safety. ~~Uh,~~ in June of last year, there was a whole day of talks on AI safety and alignment conference held by the Beijing Academy of AI and, Sam Altman delivered an online talk for that and many other. Prominent Western AI figures spoke as well. ~~Um,~~ you also had the AI safety summit in the UK that was attended by the Chinese government and other Chinese individuals. ~~Um,~~ and it was great to see agreements coming out of that on catastrophic risks from AI. ~~Uh, you know,~~ on the other side ~~things,~~ I'd say that there is still a gap, ~~uh,~~ Between words and concrete actions, and you don't see as much research happening in China on , ~~uh,~~ AI alignment, ~~um,~~ you don't see Top labs here committing to responsible scaling policies in the same way that Anthropic and OpenAI have, ~~um,~~ there's just a lot, ~~uh,~~ less thinking here about corporate governance mechanisms that might need to be in place to mitigate the worst risk from AI.

~~Um,~~ but ~~yeah,~~ maybe this is because, ~~uh,~~ you don't have in China, such a long history of labs that are explicitly focused on building AGI. ~~Um, you don't see, uh, labs that are really focused on, um, building AGI.~~ Pushing the cutting edge of the technology in quite the same way. And ~~so, um,~~ maybe it's understandable that Chinese developers are just focusing ~~on,~~ on trying to, improve their tech and get up to, ~~um, the,~~ the level where they can really be following, ~~um,~~ the likes of OpenAI and Anthropic, ~~uh,~~ and ~~I think~~ not really putting so much energy ~~at the moment~~ into thinking about safety, but, I'm hopeful that, with continued dialogue, ~~uh,~~ with Western actors, ~~um, both~~ in academic circles and at the government level, you could see movement on this front and, more actual action and investment, ~~um,~~ as opposed to just talking. My last question, is there anything that you think folks in the West could do to encourage that ~~You know,~~ continuation of dialogue and hopefully some big picture cooperation as opposed to, ~~you know,~~ the what everyone fears, I think, which is the arms race between the two countries.

~~I mean,~~ that sort of at the level of, ~~like, you know,~~ what could governments do, but also, ~~like,~~ what could you know, what should I advocate ~~for~~ for starters? If anything, ~~yeah, uh,~~ thanks for that question. ~~Um,~~ I think that for people who have, ~~um,~~ influence within AI circles, within policy circles, just, trying to ~~remain open to, to dialogue with Chinese actors and, um, trying to, um, Yeah,~~ keep channels of communication open, such that ~~even if there is further action on export controls, I'm trying to stop China from having access to most advanced tips that, uh,~~ there can still be room for dialogue on, safety and risk reduction. ~~Uh,~~ I think the. general members of the public, maybe people ~~who,~~ who don't have, the air of government in quite the same way. I think, ~~uh,~~ there's still, you know, an encouragement that I would make to, ~~uh,~~ try and engage mindfully in, Discussions about China and engaged critically with the content that you see.

~~Um,~~ I think it's important to just recognize that it is very hard to get a good handle on what is happening in China. You don't have, ~~uh,~~ A big community of foreign journalists here, they're stretched very thinly, ~~um,~~ and a lot of the English language discussion about China and Chinese AI, ~~um,~~ can lack nuance. ~~Um,~~ so encourage people to, take stories that they see with a pinch of soul, ~~um, to,~~ to try and, read ~~from, uh,~~ people who, uh, Talking about these issues in a thoughtful way, ~~um,~~ recommend the work of people like Jeff Ding and Matt Sheehan, on the AI regulation side in particular, ~~um,~~ and ~~just, um,~~ trying not to, spread, overly, Exaggerated views of Chinese AI, ~~um, I think~~ I can get frustrated when I see what really seems to be ~~some~~ fear mongering ~~and, um, you know, this,~~ this view that, China is, a real threat to AI leadership, on the U. S. side and we've got to do everything we can to stop it.

~~Um, I,~~ I hope that. There can be, a, more nuanced and, thoughtful discussion about, the pros and cons, ~~um,~~ of engaging with China and, a more, considered, approach to these questions. ~~Well,~~ I'd like to think that you and I have done, ~~uh,~~ our small part this evening and morning to advance that agenda. I really appreciate your time and, ~~uh,~~ I've learned a lot from this conversation. Is there anything else you want to touch on before we break? ~~Um,~~ I don't think so. maybe we can put some links to some of the experts that I mentioned, some of the resources that I think could be useful if people want to do a bit more digging. But yeah, just finished by thanking you a lot for giving me the chance to share my thoughts today and it's been a pleasure. Pleasure's all mine, L squared. You can find her writing on the China Talk blog from time to time.

Thank you for being part of the cognitive revolution. Thanks, Nathan. ~~Amazing job.~~ ~~Sorry to keep you so long, but that was really fantastic. And, um, I really truly did learn a lot, um, even after doing all the prep for this. So it was really great. Um, I'm going to hit stop on the recording and now we just need to let it upload. It's probably going to take a while. It's been very consistently at like 25 to 30%.~~